thank you because the downing street
briefing is beginning and here is the
prime minister boris johnson
good evening i'm delighted to be joined
today
by the chief scientific advisor sir
patrick valance and by professor
peter horby from the university of
oxford's center for tropical
medicine and global health today i'm
actually going to let
them do most of the talking as they have
some news to share on a new treatment
for coronavirus but i will start by
updating you briefly on
the latest data the first slide please
uh we've had
uh six million nine hundred and eighty
one thousand
four hundred and ninety three tests for
coronavirus carried out or posted
in the uk this includes 113
107 carried out or posted yesterday
of those 298
136 have tested positive
an increase of 1 279
cases since yesterday the second
slide shows the latest data from
hospitals 410
people were admitted to hospital with
chronovirus in england wells and
northern
ireland on the 13th of june and that's
down
from 438 a week earlier and down from a
peak of 3432
on the 1st of april 385
creative rs patients are currently in
mechanical ventilation beds in the uk
down from 513 a week ago and down from
a peak of 3301 on the 12th
of april the third slide shows
what's happening in hospitals across the
country
there are now 5254 people
in hospital with coronavirus in the uk
down 16 percent from 6282
a week ago and down from a peak of 20
698 on the 12th of april the fourth
slide
shows the daily figures for
those who have sadly lost their lives
after testing positive
for coronavirus and across all settings
the total number of deaths now stands at
969 and that's an increase
of 233 fatalities since yesterday
and although those figures are still
very sad they do show
that we're making good progress in
controlling
the spread of the virus tests are up
cases are down hospital emissions down
the number of patients overall in
hospital
and specifically those on mechanical
ventilation beds
both down and of course while
each death is one too many deaths to
repeat are coming down
to and that progress has of course only
been possible thanks to the dedication
of the british people as we work
together
to beat this virus by observing the
lockdown
sacrificing contact with friends and
families
everybody has played their part in
bringing the virus
under control so it's critical now
that we hold our nerve and don't throw
away the progress
that we've made on the 11th of may
i set out the the plan to help our
country to
recover and step by step we're working
through it
carefully and deliberately and at each
stage
we have only proceeded when the evidence
suggests that it's safe
to do so ensuring that our five tests
for adjusting
the lockdown continue to be met
and yesterday it was great to see our
shops
open their doors again our retail sector
i think has done a fantastic
job making sure that they are covered
secure
meaning they can open in a way that's
safe both for for staff
and for customers and it was great to
see so many people out shopping
whilst uh observing social distancing
quite a lot of them uh and that is so
important for stopping the
the spread of the virus
it's also been very good to see more and
more children coming back to school this
week
some secondary pupils now returning for
face-to-face contact with their teachers
ahead of the exams
next years and next year but i want to
say to
all parents whose children are eligible
to return uh in in primary school and
there's
loads of them i want to assure you it is
safe and
there is no need for your kids uh to
miss out
on their education i hope uh they will
go to school
i know that people want us to to go
further with our
our changes to the social distancing
measures
and i'm all too aware that the two meter
rule has
uh big implications for schools and for
many other
sectors and you know i i want you know i
absolutely hear those concerns
and will do everything in my power to
get us back to normal
as soon as possible but we must proceed
carefully and according to our plan and
i'm still committed to that central goal
to get
uh back to life as close to normal as
possible for as many people as possible
as fast
and as as fairly as
as possible in a way that minimizes the
risk of a new
epidemic minimizes the risk
to life and maximizes our chances of a
strong
economic and social recovery so
our plan sets out the next step for
adjusting lockdown you may remember
for personal care for the hospitality
and leisure sector for gatherings in
places of worship other public places a
lot
more to come and that as you as you know
will happen and no earlier than
july the 4th and we remain
absolutely committed to that plan and
we'll say more about how we
uh are going to be uh taking it forward
but today uh there's other news because
the
the global efforts to find a long-term
solution
uh to the pandemic uh continue
whether that's through a vaccine or
treatment and
i'm absolutely delighted that the
biggest breakthrough
yet has been made by a fantastic team of
scientists
right here in the uk and i'm not really
qualified
to pronounce on this uh this drug and
it's its effects but i'm going to ask
uh sir patrick and professor horby to
say more
in a moment but i am proud of these
british scientists
backed by uk government funding who have
led the first
robust clinical trial anywhere in the
world
to find a coronavirus treatment
proven to reduce the risk of
death and i'm very grateful to the
thousands of
patients in this country who volunteered
for the for the trials thank you
this drug dexamethasone
can now be made available across
the nhs and we've taken steps to ensure
we have
enough supplies even in the event of
a second peak of course
while the chances of dying from covid19
have been greatly reduced
by this treatment or significantly
reduced by this treatment
they're still far too high
so we must redouble our
research efforts and we certainly will
but today
i think that there is genuine cause to
to celebrate a remarkable british
scientific achievement the benefits
it will bring not just in this country
but
around the world and i'll now hand over
to sir patrick
thank you very much prime minister so
the way in which we find out whether
drugs work is through clinical trials
and i think this is
an extremely good example of a clinical
trial that's been very well conducted
it's had
large numbers of patients enrolled
across the uk
and peter horby who has led the study
will say more about it in just a minute
it's called the recovery study and i
just want to send a
few few moments to sort of thank some of
the people involved i'd like to thank
the investigators
who have put this together and led it so
effectively
all the people in the nhs who've been
part of actually making this happen
of course the funders who allowed this
to happen that's both the mrc and the
national institute of health research
nihr
actually thank some of the other people
involved behind the scenes as well such
as jonathan van tam
and most importantly the patients who
volunteered to be part of this study
but rather than me talk about it it's
much more important to hear from peter
hallby who led this
and really has driven the whole thing
through peter yeah thank you very much
so
i'm co-chief investigator of the
recovery trial with professor martin
landry
and we've been supported by an
absolutely fantastic team in oxford
and also across the entire nhs because
the trial has been
implemented across all countries in the
united kingdom
more than 175 hospitals with tremendous
efforts by nhs staff who are under
enormous pressure
to actually talk to patients tell them
about the benefits of getting
good clinical trial evidence to make
sure we have the best treatments
and getting them into the trial and
i think we've broken some records so in
three months we've enrolled over eleven
and a half thousand patients so this
makes it by far
the biggest clinical trial in the world
and we've been testing six different
drugs
a couple of weeks ago we declared an
answer on hydroxychloroquine showing
that in hospitalized patients it doesn't
work
and this week we've got some news on
dexamethasone which as we've heard
is a steroid drug it's it's an old drug
some people would say it's a very boring
drug it's been around for 60 odd years
it's very cheap it costs pounds
and overseas it costs pennies and so
we closed that arm of the trial on
monday 8th of june because we had
enrolled
more than 2 000 patients on
dexamethasone and we compared them to 4
000 patients who had standard of care
and what we saw was really quite
remarkable
so we've looked at different treatment
groups and the
drug has a different treatment effect in
different treatment groups
so in in ventilated patients with
covid19
the drug dexamethasone so 10 days of
treatment with that which is a tablet
or an injection reduces the risk of
death
by about 35 percent
in patients on the ward who require
oxygen and have covered
it reduces the risk of death by about 20
percent
that covers about 75 percent of patients
in the hospital who will receive a
mortality benefit from using this drug
there's another group of patients who
don't require oxygen but have covid
and we did not see a benefit in those
patients so it's not a drug
that you would use in the community or
in outpatients or in patients on the
water who didn't have breathing
difficulties
but in patients with breathing
difficulties who require oxygen or
ventilation
it really is showing quite a significant
effect and it's really important because
the drug itself
is very widely available it's on almost
every pharmacy shelf in every hospital
it's available throughout the world and
it's extremely cheap
so we've looked at the numbers and if we
treat eight patients in intensive care
with this drug
um we'll save one life and the total
cost of treating all eight patients is
only about 40 pounds
so this is really really remarkable and
we're extremely pleased with this result
we're continuing with the trial because
we have still four other drugs in the
trial
and what we hope is we can build on this
very strong foundation
with adding additional drugs and
continue to bring down the case fatality
rate and so
i think this is a really good news that
we've now got a treatment
that almost every patient can take and
they will get benefit from it a couple
of things to that
the important thing is this is the first
medicine that's been shown to reduce
death in any group with covid
and that's the start of something so it
shows this is possible to do
and as other drugs get looked at the
hope is that they'll add on top of that
and you'll add beyond the 25 or 35
percent
change that peter's talking about so
this is the start of something important
it shows it is possible to reduce the
inflammation
and the outcome in patients with lung
disease in hospital
and it's the start of other drugs which
might be added on top of it
to make an even bigger effect in due
course we hope
thanks very much uh peter and patrick
and
um we're gonna go now to questions from
the public say can we go please to
trevor from northamptonshire
with the world health organization and
other countries opting to have a social
distance of one meter
when will the government move from two
meters to one
to be in line with these countries um
thanks very much trevor
and i think that's the question that uh
uh obviously i'm
uh being asked that the whole time now
as you know
the advice uh is that two meters is is
is more effective at
reducing the risk of transmission of the
virus uh between us and that's why we've
been
uh going for two meters uh lots of
countries go for two meters that's the
advice that we've
uh we've had from our scientists but
it's also my view
and i think an increasingly widespread
view that as we as we get the numbers
down and we get the
the rate of infection done in the
country
then the statistical likelihood
trevor of any of us actually being next
to somebody
uh you know whether two meters one meter
or whatever distance
uh who has coronavirus uh is
is going down the whole time so we are
keeping it under
constant review and uh
as we depress the numbers as we uh
reduce the incidence
uh i think we'll also have a strong case
for for reviewing those measures
uh as well and i and i hope to be able
to do that but i'm afraid to say
we can't do it yet we need uh to
continue to make progress
um patreon you want to say on i think
that's exactly right prime minister
two meters is safer than one meter
um but it's not an absolute it's it's a
relative
um and and obviously the closer you get
the riskier it is so it's a risk
assessment
and as we've said in the evidence that
we've given
um scientifically that um there are
things you can do to reduce the risk
on top of that including being side by
side rather than face to face
back to back um in a good ventilated
space the risk is lower outside
and face coverings can help when you're
in crowded spaces where you can't
avoid but to be close to somebody so
there are times in which this can be
changed and that evidence of course can
then be the basis of a policy decision
on what the right
distance is that should be should be
mandated or
put forward as the as the rule to follow
so i don't think
um two meters is some sort of absolute
cut-off that never changes
and as the prime minister said when you
look at the um
incidents the number of people getting
the infection every day or the
prevalence the number of people
with the disease at any one time which
currently
according to the ons numbers are
something like
6 out of 10 000 people have the
infection at the moment you can see the
probability gets quite
low and therefore you can start to think
about ways in which you can manage the
distance in certain circumstances in
different ways
ah absolutely um be anything you want to
add on on the two meter rule from the
point of view of the
okay um good well i mean trevor the
answer is you know
we're getting there uh please people you
know
i know people are very very impatient
about this we're making as much uh
progress
on that as we can and you know watch
this space because we
uh we we absolutely hear you uh can we
go to
uh to terry uh from hawley
and sorry terry says the latest funeral
advice and recommendations are provided
on may the 18th
can you provide an update to these and
have these been relaxed for mourners
given the relaxations and easing of
lockdown that have since
taken place uh well uh
terry what i think i i i can say is that
uh we we do think that people should be
able to attend
uh funerals provided they observe
social distancing and and and follow the
follow the basic rules and i i i think
that um
you know we totally understand on
compassionate grounds why people uh need
to
uh to attend uh funerals and uh we'll be
saying more
about um what we can do
more generally to relax social
distancing rules as we come up to
to july the fourth um patrick everything
you want to say the same
more on on on funerals thanks very much
terry can we go to to vicky young of the
bbc please
vicky i'm going to see you've talked a
lot about leveling up and tackling
inequalities
in britain but it's taken a campaign by
a 22 year old footballer to
force you into action on free school
meals have you lost touch
with those that you promised to help
i've also got a question
to patrick valance about dexamethasone
could this treatment mean that in future
if there were to be a second wave that
we might not need to take such extreme
and lockdown measures
um thanks uh very much vicki well
actually i mean i
i talked to marcus uh rashford today and
to congratulated on
him on his campaign in which to to to be
honest i only became aware of
uh very very recent today and i
i thank him for what he's done i think i
think he's right to draw attention to
this issue
basically you know we've got large
numbers of
of kids who haven't been able uh to get
back into school
we've got a problem about getting kids
back into the school in the way that we
would
want for the the reasons that people
understand
though actually there are lots of kids
who could go back to school
now who aren't going back to school and
i'd like to see that
i'd like to see that happen but i do
think it's right
that we should be looking after families
of the
uh of the vulnerable most vulnerable the
neediest right now and that's why
uh we've got the uh the kovid summer
food
uh plan uh which we've announced today
and and i hope it will make
a a big difference uh to those kids and
and to those families can we go to oh
sorry yes
sorry oh peter may want to come in on
this but um
just remember this drug doesn't stop you
catching the disease it doesn't stop you
going into hospital with the disease
it reduces the death for those who are
in hospital
who require oxygen or in icu and require
oxygen
and it's a very important effect but as
peter said
it's roughly one in eight who survive as
a result of this a very important effect
but certainly not
an effect size that would say well
therefore you don't need to worry about
the other measures to try and reduce
the spread of this infection peter do
you want to add to that
yes i mean i would add to that you know
it's great to have a you know an
effective treatment but we need to build
on that we still
i think have got some room to improve
the survival rates quite markedly
but it's only part of the measures to
control um this disease we also need
you know very good vaccines and if if
need be to reintroduce social distancing
measures if
we see transmission increasing again
thanks
uh vicki can we go to dan hewitt from
itv
uh thank you prime minister and two
questions if i may um
the first uh we're in smebic today um
filming with families who are
reliant on the free school meal voucher
scheme that you set
up um three of the families have said to
us they remember you specifically
saying that you would do whatever it
takes to help them get through this
crisis
you've just said it's the right thing to
do to help the neediest families to
introduce the scheme over the summer
but why did it take a 22 year old
footballer
to embarrass you into changing your
policy and secondly if i may how can you
reassure your old friend david cameron
that merging the foreign office and
diffid won't as he says
cause less respect for the uk overseas
well uh dan first of all on the uh the
summer
uh food support scheme i think it is as
i say i think it is the right thing to
do and i
i do congratulate uh marcus rashford on
his campaign
and um you know we we set out a voucher
scheme
uh for the first couple of of holidays
clearly free school meals uh should
generally apply in
in term time that's what the that's what
they're there for but
we have to understand the the pressures
that families
are under right now and that's why we've
responded as we have
and as i say i think it's the the right
thing to do and it will help
uh the kids from the the families that
really
really need it and on your second
question about
um what we're doing with with different
well look i mean this is i think we've
got to be
this is a fantastic opportunity for this
country to make the most
of our enormous uh influence
abroad and maximize the uk's
uh uh producer projection
uh by by merging differed and the fco
and
frankly i think you know it's
extraordinary we haven't done it earlier
we have
uh 28 out of 29 oecd countries
do it this way it's it's far more
coherent
it means that the sums that we spend on
aid are used not just to tackle
uh poverty uh deprivation around the
world but
uh they're far better uh in line with uk
government policy the priorities
of the british people and i'm absolutely
certain it's the
it's the right thing for our country uh
right now and you know think of think of
things like
uh the coronavirus vaccine summit the
the gavi summit that we held just the
other day there's a fantastic example of
the uk
leading in helping to raise 8.8
billion pounds uh sorry dollars 8.8
billion dollars
uh to to come up with a uh a vaccine
uh not just for coronavirus but to help
vaccinate uh kids around the world
and uh and solve all sorts of problems
so
what we're trying to do is put
that idealism and that mission to
uh improve the world to save kids to
encourage female education at the heart
of uk foreign policy and we're creating
a new uh whitehall super department that
will actually i think
enable us to express our our views much
more powerfully
around the world would be good for
development aid and good for
good for the uk and it's that it's the
right time to do it
um sam coats please from sky thank you
prime minister um
to you patrick valance and peter hornby
um
on democracy um
how quickly can uh people in the nhs who
are suffering breathing prop
problems expect to get this treatment is
there an expectation
that it will be available pretty much
now for anybody who needs it
uh in the uk and prime minister uh we
understand that this drug has
been put on the government's export ban
list which means that companies can't
buy it up and export it to other
countries
on the day that you've given a speech
about global britain that doesn't feel
very
uh global britain to me can you explain
the rationale behind that decision
and as part of your decision to merge
the international development department
and the foreign office
you seem to signal a very big shift in
foreign policy taking
uh aid money away from zambia and
tanzania and giving it to relatively
rich countries like ukraine
can you just spell out a bit more of
your thinking behind that surprise
decision and why was that now
uh well first of all on the on the um
the circle the on what you're saying
about dexamethasone and
uh the the ban on exports i'm not i'm
not aware of that patrick do you wear
already
um i'm i'm you know i i'll have to come
back to you though matt
uh sam but on your on your it sounds i
mean dexamethasone as i understand it is
a drug that is produced
around the world i mean uh and and you
know perhaps peter and patrick might
like to comment on this but
it's produced very cheaply in india it's
produced in thailand it's produced
it i think it was first uh uh i
identified in in 1957
uh a steroid so you know it's been
around a long time
um i i'll have to come back to you on
you on your suggestion we've
banned the export of uh of dexamethasone
it sounds
uh peculiar to me but we'll we'll we'll
certainly
look into it um on on your on your
question about
reprioritization of eight budgets now
that's not what's happening that's
that's not what's happening what we want
to do
is to make sure that we get better bang
for our buck we spend a british taxpayer
spends a huge amount
on aid and quite frankly uh in my view
as somebody who observed things very
close up i'm a huge fan
of what diffid has done i'm a massive
admirer of the
dedication idealism of our aid
professionals
but what i want to see is greater
integration of that
passion and that commitment with our
overall foreign policy
objectives and we can do that and we can
make much more difference around the
world
uh if we act as one a global britain
with one focal point
in the countries where we're represented
and were represented obviously around
the world with the ambassador in that
country
leading and really conveying a single
message from the united kingdom about
our priorities whether it's
female education or human rights or
whatever it happens to be and
that is that is the way to get more bang
for our buck i
passionately believe that it's the right
thing to do and this is the right time
to do it
all the other countries uh have uh are
going
uh this way even if they previously had
separate uh aid uh departments they've
been they've been folding them in
and now is the time for for for us to
create this really powerful
unified voice for international policy
i think there was a question for you
sorry and and i'm bringing peter as well
but i mean
the first thing to say is dexamethasone
is inexpensive
very widely available and the really
exciting thing about this study
is not only that it works but it means
it can work across the world
this is a change of practice it doesn't
require
complex manufacturing owned by one
company
that can't produce it in scale this is a
drug which can
immediately be used across the world for
this condition and that's such an
important thing and your question was
what are we doing here
and um the cmo will be issuing guidance
to say that this should be used for
clinical practice
and that's what i expect to happen
shortly as he releases
his guidance so the idea is to get on
with this
and uh certainly to try and make this as
available as possible
everywhere in the world which is part of
the excitement i don't know peter would
you want to add anything to this
i mean it's it's of all the drugs in our
study it's the one that i'm
most excited about i'm most pleased that
we've got this positive result because
it's very stable we know it extremely
well it's been used for 60 years
it's in the cupboards now you know the
doctors can walk across to the pharmacy
cupboard
in five minutes and they can prescribe
it they know how it works and they know
it's going to help and so it can be done
this evening it's fantastic thanks very
much
jason grove's daily mail thanks prime
minister
12 weeks or so ago you stood in that
room and
predicted we would have sent the corona
virus packing
uh in 12 weeks jud except for lots of
people it doesn't feel like that
people can't send their kids to school
they can't hug their loved ones even you
can't get a haircut
um are we going to attract it in another
12 weeks
and can i ask on a personal note uh how
wilfred is getting on is he keeping you
awake at night has he seen his
grandparents yeah
um well look uh jason look first of all
actually what i said was that we were
going to turn the tide
uh within 12 weeks that's what i don't
hesitate to correct
uh uh an illustrious uh
uh uh correspondent such as yourself but
i said we would turn the tide and i
really think we did
uh within 12 weeks if you look at where
the disease is now to
you know we we went through the peak uh
we've now
we've we've flattened the sombrero
whatever i i said we were going to do we
did we did that
i think that as a result of the actions
that the british people took
uh we saved many many tens of thousands
of lives
at the least uh and uh were coming
through this
uh in in of course it's a very very
uh difficult time for this country but
we are coming through it and
um yes i do think that
we're now starting to see with uh
you know prep drugs like dexamethasone
uh the idea that
perhaps you could combine that with uh
you know with other things
you know we're seeing the first of
light which which i was was
you know perhaps a bit dubious about
we're seeing the first of light
and the hope that there will be
preparations treatments are already are
that can make a big difference to
mortality rates
um and as you know we're making big
investments in
in vaccines now all of that none of that
negates the importance of us continuing
to follow the rules to control the virus
and and save lives i think people do
understand that
we've turned the tide on it we haven't
yet
finally defeated it and that is the
the reality that we have to face i think
people do
accept that but i also think people are
absolutely resolved to defeat it and
i can assure you uh jason that we will
and as for your other question about uh
about wilfred well
um you know i never normally comment
about these sorts of things but it's all
all fine so far thanks uh thanks thanks
jason all doing all doing well
um was that i think that was jason's
only question wasn't it that was i think
no scientific questions there um let's
let's go to
uh sapphire slay from the evening
standard sapphire
thank you prime minister um my first
question is for the scientists
the evening standard understands that
there is a huge demand for data from
post-mortem tissue samples of
coronavirus victims
would you encourage more post-mortem
research and encourage families to give
their consent
and my second question is for prime
minister spain
says it's considering imposing
quarantine restrictions on uk visitors
unless the british government lifts its
own two-week isolation rule
what is your response to spain today and
secondly will you be talking about a
travel corridor with france when you see
president macron later this week
thanks very much sapphire um sorry the
question would you want to
address the the scientific question
first battery well clinical research in
all its forms
is incredibly important for this uh
disease it's a new disease which we are
trying to learn about um i think the
example
of the recovery study which peter and
martin landry have led so effectively
is an absolute landmark in understanding
where
something could make a difference and
clinical research in all its forms
can involve taking blood samples it can
involve taking
tissues in order to understand what's
happened to the tissues to pick up virus
it can
involve x-rays and scans and other
things to look at it
and it also involves the use of
post-mortem tissues sometimes in order
to understand
more about the causes of death and the
way in which the virus can affect
different organ systems
and so that is an important part of
understanding this disease and has
always been an important part
of understanding new diseases
understanding old diseases better and
trying to make sure that the
treatments are therefore targeted in the
right way so post-mortem research is a
part
of an important part of the research
system but there are many many other
parts as well
people don't want to direct that
completely echo that you know this is a
brand new disease
that we're learning you know every day
but there's still so much we don't know
we still don't know how it affects the
blood vessels how it affects the heart
muscle how it affects the
nervous system we really need to
understand that properly to really make
progress
um and i think you know there's many
contributions that people can make and
agreeing to post-mortems is one is one
small way that they can make a
contribution to other patients
thanks very much i survived i say
obviously i'll be talking to
emmanuel macron about all sorts of uh
ways in which we can bring our countries
together making sure that
uh you know we we eventually will be
able to travel freely
uh to and from uh each other's country
same goes obviously for
for spain um as soon as we as soon as we
can
the reason for having the quarantine
system is is very simple is we
you know we don't want to re-import the
disease just at the moment when uh we've
we've really got it under control in in
this country
but we're certainly looking at uh air
bridges and ways to
ensure that people can safely uh safely
go
on uh on a holiday eventually um
daniel barnes from the south wales
islands uh thanks prime minister um
yesterday welsh first minister mark
drakeford said in his briefing
that he'd not spoken to you for three
weeks does this lack of communication
explain
why you've been unable to maintain a
consistent formation approach during
this pandemic
um well daniel actually we've done a
huge amount of
of uh collaboration and conversation
with
with mark and uh with leaders in all uh
the nations of the
of the uk and actually i think that
uh as i've said many times before
there's far more than
uh far more that unites us than than
divides us
um welsh government ministers uh
minister from from scotland uh northern
ireland
they've been they've been in all the
cobra meetings uh they're talking
continuously
to uh to uh uh
chancellor of lancaster uh and i look
forward to talking to marcus
as as soon as possible uh but uh while
you while
while you're you're on uh daniel i might
just say
uh to uh from the from southwest i might
just say that
the people of cardiff uh were amongst
those who
really volunteered in large numbers uh
for the trial
that enabled uh the uh
dexa i don't know
that enabled the dexamethasone uh trial
to be uh successfully completed so a big
big shout out and a big thank you uh to
the people of cardiff
uh for their for their volunteering uh
would that be right peter yes i mean the
the whole trial has been a huge effort
across all the four nations
with fantastic recruitment um our top uh
hospital was in leicester but we had
fantastic recruitment from wales and
scotland and northern ireland as well so
it's been a huge
national effort good thanks very much
everybody thank you
thank you daniel thanks thanks all thank
you
so the end there of that latest crona
virus downing street briefing led by the
prime minister
let's just take you through the main
points that uh came out of that
briefing there with boris johnson and he
announced what he called the biggest
breakthrough yet in finding a
coronavirus treatment
proven to reduce the risk of death the
treatment
is that steroid dexamethasone it cuts
the risk of death we heard by a third
for patients on ventilators
and for those who are on oxygen it cuts
the rate of deaths by a fifth now the
prime minister said the uk does have
enough supplies
of dexamethasone even in the event of a
second wave
of infections it comes as another 233
people
have died in the uk from covid19 that
takes the total death toll so far
to 41 969
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news